# what is ES6 ?

- ES6 stands for ECMAScript 6. (European Computer Manufacturers Association)
- ECMAScript was created to standardize Javascript, and ES6 is the 6th version of ECMAScript, it was published in 2015, and is also known as ECMAScript 2015.

## Classes

- A class is a type of function, but instead of using the keyword function to initiate it, we use the keyword class, and the properties are assigned inside a constructor() method.
- Notice the case of the class name. We have begun the name, "Car", with an uppercase character. This is a standard naming convention for classes.
```jsx
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.brand = name;
  }
}

const mycar = new Car("Ford");

document.write(mycar.brand);
```
- The constructor function is called automatically when the object is initialized.

 ### Method in class
 ```jsx
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.brand = name;
  }
  
  present() {
    return 'I have a ' + this.brand;
  }
}

const mycar = new Car("Ford");
mycar.present();
 ```
 As you can see in the example above, you call the method by referring to the object's method name followed by parentheses (parameters would go inside the parentheses).

 ### Class Inheritance

 - To create a class inheritance,use the **extends** keyword.
 - A class created with a class inheritance inherits all the methods from another class.

 ```jsx
class Car{
    constructor(name){
        this.brand=name;
    }
    present(){
        return 'I have a ' + this.brand;
    }
}
 
class Model extends Car {
    constructor(name,model){
        super(name);
        this.model = mod;
    }
    show(){
        return this.present() + ', it is a ' + this.model
    }
}

const mycar = new Model("Ford","Mustang");
mycar.show();
 ```
 - The **super()** method refers to the parent class.
 - By calling the super() method in the constructor method, we call the parent's constructor method and get access to the parent's properties and methods.

 ## Arrow Functions

 Arrow functions allow us to write shorter function syntax:
 ```jsx
 const hello = (val) => { // in parentheses you can pass parameter
    return "Hello World!"+ val ;
 }
 ```
 If the function has only one statement, and the statement returns a value, you can remove the brackets and the return keyword:
 ```jsx
const hello = () => "Hello world!";

const hello = val => "hello" + val;

 ```
 ### this Keyword

 - In regular functions the this keyword represented the object that called the function, which could be the window,the document, a button or whatever.
 - with arrow functions, the this keyword always represents the object that defined the arrow function.
 
 ## Variables
 There are three ways of defining your variables: var,let and const.

 ### var (function scope)
1. If you use var outside of a function, it belongs to the global scope.
2. If you use var inside of a function, it belongs to that function.
3. If you use var inside of a block, i.e a for loop, the variable is still available outside of that block.
### let (block scope)

when we declare let inside the loop or function it cannot use outside.

### const (block scope)

- const is a variable that once it has been created, its value can never change.
- It does not define a constant value. It defines a constant reference to a value.
  - The variable itself cannot be reassigned
  - But the value it points to may still change (if it’s an object/array)



